README.md, before:

# RemoteOK Job Market Analysis – Mini Project

## 📌 Project Overview

This mini project focuses on **web scraping, data cleaning, analysis, and visualization** of job listings from the **RemoteOK job portal**. The objective is to understand **job market trends**, **in-demand skills**, **job types**, and **location patterns** using real-world data.

The project follows a structured data pipeline:

1. Data Collection (Web Scraping)  
2. Data Cleaning & Preprocessing  
3. Data Analysis  
4. Data Visualization  
5. Documentation & Reporting  

---

## 🎯 Project Objectives

- Scrape job listings from RemoteOK  
- Clean and preprocess raw job data  
- Analyze job roles, skills, locations, and seniority  
- Visualize key insights using charts  
- Maintain a clean, reproducible project structure  

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **Python**  
- **Pandas** – data manipulation  
- **Matplotlib / Seaborn** – data visualization  
- **BeautifulSoup / Selenium** – web scraping  
- **Jupyter Notebook**  
- **Markdown** – documentation  

---

## 📁 Project Folder Structure


remoteok-scraping-project/
│
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
│
├── src/
│   ├── scraper.py
│   ├── data_cleaner.py
│   └── analyzer.py
├── Task_F.ipynb
│ 
├── data/
│   ├── raw/
│   │   └── remoteok_raw.csv
│   └── cleaned/
│       └── remoteok_jobs_cleaned.csv
│
├── visualizations/
│   ├── top_skills.png
│   ├── job_type_distribution.png
│   ├── top_job_titles.png
│   └── skill_frequency_comparison.png
│
└── reports/
    ├── analysis_report.pdf
    └── methodology.md

---

## 🔍 Data Description

Each row in the dataset represents a **job posting**, with attributes such as:

- Job title  
- Company name  
- Technical skills  
- Location / Job type  
- Seniority level  
- Posting date  

---

## 🧹 Data Cleaning Steps

- Removed duplicate job listings  
- Handled missing values  
- Standardized column names  
- Cleaned and normalized technical skills  
- Prepared location and seniority fields for analysis  

---

## 📊 Analysis Performed

- Top job roles by frequency  
- Most in-demand technical skills  
- Job type distribution (Remote / Onsite / Hybrid)  
- Location-based job trends  
- Skill frequency comparison across postings  

---

## 📈 Visualizations

Key insights are presented using:

- Bar charts for top skills and job titles  
- Distribution charts for job types  
- Skill frequency comparison plots  

All visual outputs are stored in the `visualizations/` folder.

---

## 📝 Reports & Documentation

- **analysis_report.pdf** – summarizes insights and findings  
- **methodology.md** – explains the project workflow and approach  
- **README.md** – project overview and structure  

---

## 👥 Team Roles

- Web Analyst  
- Data Collection Engineer  
- Data Preprocessing Engineer  
- Data Analyst  
- Data Visualization Analyst  
- Quality Assurance Analyst  
- Technical Documentation Specialist  
- Project Coordinator  

Each role contributed to a specific stage of the project lifecycle.

---

## Quality Assurance & Testing

The Quality Assurance phase ensured the correctness, stability, and reproducibility of the complete data pipeline.

- Verified scraper execution across multiple job roles without runtime failures.
- Confirmed ethical scraping practices using controlled scrolling and delays.
- Validated existence and integrity of raw scraped datasets.
- Verified data cleaning notebook removes duplicates, handles nulls, and standardizes skill data.
- Executed analysis and visualization notebook end-to-end without errors.
- Confirmed accurate generation of skill demand charts.
- Ensured consistent outputs across repeated executions.

**QA Status:** All pipeline stages validated and approved for final use.
---
## ✅ Conclusion

This project demonstrates a complete **end-to-end data pipeline**, from raw data collection to meaningful insights and visual storytelling. It follows best practices in data handling, collaboration, and documentation.

---

## 📌 How to Run the Project

1. Install required libraries:

pip install -r requirements.txt


2. Run scraping script (optional if raw data exists):
python src/scraper.py


3. Clean the data:
python src/data_cleaner.py


4. Analyze the data:

python src/analyzer.py

Commit message:

Update README with ethics and compliance details
Added ethics and compliance section to README.

README.md, after:

# RemoteOK Job Market Analysis – Mini Project

## 📌 Project Overview

This mini project focuses on **web scraping, data cleaning, analysis, and visualization** of job listings from the **RemoteOK job portal**. The objective is to understand **job market trends**, **in-demand skills**, **job types**, and **location patterns** using real-world data.

The project follows a structured data pipeline:

1. Data Collection (Web Scraping)  
2. Data Cleaning & Preprocessing  
3. Data Analysis  
4. Data Visualization  
5. Documentation & Reporting  

---

## 🎯 Project Objectives

- Scrape job listings from RemoteOK  
- Clean and preprocess raw job data  
- Analyze job roles, skills, locations, and seniority  
- Visualize key insights using charts  
- Maintain a clean, reproducible project structure  

---

## 🛠️ Technologies Used

- **Python**  
- **Pandas** – data manipulation  
- **Matplotlib / Seaborn** – data visualization  
- **BeautifulSoup / Selenium** – web scraping  
- **Jupyter Notebook**  
- **Markdown** – documentation  

---

## 📁 Project Folder Structure


remoteok-scraping-project/
│
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
│
├── src/
│   ├── scraper.py
│   ├── data_cleaner.py
│   └── analyzer.py
├── Task_F.ipynb
│ 
├── data/
│   ├── raw/
│   │   └── remoteok_raw.csv
│   └── cleaned/
│       └── remoteok_jobs_cleaned.csv
│
├── visualizations/
│   ├── top_skills.png
│   ├── job_type_distribution.png
│   ├── top_job_titles.png
│   └── skill_frequency_comparison.png
│
└── reports/
    ├── analysis_report.pdf
    └── methodology.md
    └── ethics_compliance.md

---

## 🔍 Data Description

Each row in the dataset represents a **job posting**, with attributes such as:

- Job title  
- Company name  
- Technical skills  
- Location / Job type  
- Seniority level  
- Posting date  

---

## 🧹 Data Cleaning Steps

- Removed duplicate job listings  
- Handled missing values  
- Standardized column names  
- Cleaned and normalized technical skills  
- Prepared location and seniority fields for analysis  

---

## 📊 Analysis Performed

- Top job roles by frequency  
- Most in-demand technical skills  
- Job type distribution (Remote / Onsite / Hybrid)  
- Location-based job trends  
- Skill frequency comparison across postings  

---

## 📈 Visualizations

Key insights are presented using:

- Bar charts for top skills and job titles  
- Distribution charts for job types  
- Skill frequency comparison plots  

All visual outputs are stored in the `visualizations/` folder.

---

## 📝 Reports & Documentation

- **analysis_report.pdf** – summarizes insights and findings  
- **methodology.md** – explains the project workflow and approach  
- **README.md** – project overview and structure  

---

## 👥 Team Roles

- Web Analyst  
- Data Collection Engineer  
- Data Preprocessing Engineer  
- Data Analyst  
- Data Visualization Analyst  
- Quality Assurance Analyst  
- Technical Documentation Specialist  
- Project Coordinator  

Each role contributed to a specific stage of the project lifecycle.

---

## ⚖️ Ethics & Compliance

This project follows ethical web scraping practices in compliance with the `robots.txt` rules of the RemoteOK website.

Key compliance measures include:
- Scraping only publicly accessible content
- Respecting crawl-delay rules to avoid server overload
- Avoiding disallowed paths and restricted URLs
- Not impersonating blocked or restricted bots

A detailed ethics and compliance assessment is documented in  
`reports/ethics_compliance.md`.

---

## Quality Assurance & Testing

The Quality Assurance phase ensured the correctness, stability, and reproducibility of the complete data pipeline.

- Verified scraper execution across multiple job roles without runtime failures.
- Confirmed ethical scraping practices using controlled scrolling and delays.
- Validated existence and integrity of raw scraped datasets.
- Verified data cleaning notebook removes duplicates, handles nulls, and standardizes skill data.
- Executed analysis and visualization notebook end-to-end without errors.
- Confirmed accurate generation of skill demand charts.
- Ensured consistent outputs across repeated executions.

**QA Status:** All pipeline stages validated and approved for final use.
---
## ✅ Conclusion

This project demonstrates a complete **end-to-end data pipeline**, from raw data collection to meaningful insights and visual storytelling. It follows best practices in data handling, collaboration, and documentation.

---

## 📌 How to Run the Project

1. Install required libraries:

pip install -r requirements.txt


2. Run scraping script (optional if raw data exists):
python src/scraper.py


3. Clean the data:
python src/data_cleaner.py


4. Analyze the data:

python src/analyzer.py
